>> Kyle Simpson: So I referred to
this lexical scope several times.
And that is the model by which
scopes are nested within each
other that we described
earlier in this course.
This process of putting a function in
scope and perhaps inside of another one.
And referencing variables and
accessing them outside of the scope,
that is the lexical scope model.
I find it strange sometimes that
people suggest that JavaScript
does not have lexical scope, where they
will claim that something like Java or
C++ has lexical scope.
Because from the perspective
of a compiler author,
they absolutely have the same scope model.
There are some nuances
that we'll talk about,
mainly what we refer to as hoisting.
There are some nuances that are slightly
different in terms of your expectation.
But even those are not particularly
onerous to get your head around.
It's just that most people
never actually learn it.
So, it's just like when we talked about
coercion earlier in the course and said,
you know, most people said it's
just too hard to learn coercion.
So I don't even wanna learn it,
so it must be poorly designed.
If you learn these rules it's
actually pretty straightforward.
So I would stand firmly on the fact that
JavaScript absolutely has lexical scope.
There is another model for scoping.
I hinted at this earlier,
it's the dynamic scope model.
And I wanted to quickly compare those two.
So lexical scope,
you'll notice that I have a bar variable.
And when I reference that
bar variable on line 5,
the compiler has said, I know which
bucket you come from, it's from this one.
So that reference again,
it's permanent, it's fixed.
It's not gonna be like some dispatch
where we figure this out at runtime.
There's a fixed relationship there and
it's never gonna change.
No matter what you do with that baz
function, even if you pass it to other
places, it's always gonna refer
to that exact same function.
No matter how you call baz,
where it's called from,
it'll always refer to that exact
same bar variable from line 2.
That's a good nice
predictability to lexical scope.
And I would say that's one of
the biggest benefits of lexical scope.
As a matter of fact, the predictability
leads into more optimization.
Virtually all programming
languages have lexical scope.
And I think one of the reasons for that is
that lexical scope is more optimizable.
Because we don't need to decide at
runtime where these variables come from.
We can figure that out once at compile
time and reuse that information.
If every time we call baz, and
every place that we call baz from we might
get different answers which bar variable
it referred to, that would be very much
more dynamic and much harder to optimize.
Do we understand that part?
So that's lexical scope, by contrast,
if JavaScript had dynamic scope.
Sorry I wanted to point out that of
the ways that I like to visualize this is
nested bubbles of scope.
For me that's a little bit even more
helpful than the building metaphor,
I like these nested bubbles.
They're strictly nested, it's not like
Venn diagrams, they don't cross lines.
Because it would make no sense for
the baz scope to be partially
in two different parent scopes.
So they're entirely
nested within each other.
I wish there was an editor plugin
that could draw these lines around my
scopes or whatever.
By the way,
another shout out to Doug Crawford.
He had buried as a little tidbit in one of
his talks that I watching at one point and
this is from years ago.
He talked about Syntax
highlighting in editors and
he talked about Syntax highlighting as
being a silly thing that only uninformed
developers need which was a really
bizarre statement to make.
But then he made the case, which actually
the reason I'm bringing this up,
he made the case that what we really
should have is not syntax highlighting but
scope highlighting.
And he showed an example where he had
code where they were nested scopes, and
the variables were colored according
to what scope they belonged to, and
I thought that was genius.
I wish we had that,
I wish that tool existed,
cuz I'd be using that with my slides for
sure.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] So,
here is dynamics scope.
As by comparison here we have a full
function that references a bar
because it doesn't have its own bar,
we have to figure out where
is that bar gonna come from.
And we would normally think,
well it's gonna go to the outer scope,
in this case the global scope.
But in a dynamically scoped language,
it would not matter where
the function was written or where.
Or in any way perform how it was called.
It will only matter where
it was called from.
So here we wrote it on line two but
we call it from line eight.
And that's would be how it would
decide.I'm gonna go back to where you
were called from.
I'm gonna walk up the call stack and
console each of the scope
call stack to figure out.
Which variable to use.
It would still be a first come first
serve dispatch to find that variable.
So you notice now that we
have the same foo function.
If it was called from
a thousand different locations,
we'd get a thousand different answers
as to what the bar variable points at.
>> Kyle Simpson: The tradeoff here,
of course,
Is that now things are not predictable,
but they are much more flexible.
We've now got a system where
a function could be written and
be used in many different contexts.
Now this is hypothetical,
this isn't actually how JavaScript works.
So don't worry that all of a sudden,
your whole world is coming down like no,
what am I doing, right?
This is theoretical.
But, if JavaScript had
a mechanism kind of like this,
where we could write
a function in such a way.
And then make it dynamic in terms of
how it resolves reference to variables.
We could do that, could we all
agree that that would be a nice,
interesting, additional use case for
JavaScript.
That we would have not only lexical scope,
which is predictable, but
we'd also have this mechanism that
was dynamic and more flexible.
And having both of those in
the language is a powerful thing.
Most languages only have one or the other.
And having both of them in the same
language is one of the things that I think
is most unique and
interesting about JavaScript.
So while this is not actually
how dynamic scale works,
we will see the visci
word later in our course.
And that will give us a clue to how we
can do something like dynamic contexting.
Just keep those two ideas,
the fixed lexical author timescoping
decision that's predictable
compared to this dynamic scoping thing
that's dynamic and more flexible.